README.md, before:

﻿## C# Tradfri Library 
This is a .NET Standard (2.0) library to communicate with the [IKEA Trådfri](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00337813/) (Tradfri) ZigBee-based Gateway. Using this library you can, by communicating with the gateway, control IKEA lights (including the RGB ones). 
![Build Status](https://mmustapic.visualstudio.com/_apis/public/build/definitions/596f4816-2b07-4869-bcd5-50b9df973ce6/1/badge) [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/tomidix/CSharpTradFriLibrary.svg)]() [![NuGet downloads](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary) [![NuGet downloads](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary) 

This library is still in development. Current version: 1.2.2.x (x-build number, references only minor changes and fixes)

Latest Gateway version tested and working - 1.9.27.

- Get information on the gateway
- Observe lights, groups and other resources
- Get notified when lights, groups and other resources change
- List all devices connected to gateway
- List all lights and get attributes of lights (name, state, color temp, dimmer level etc)
- Change attribute values of lights (currently only turn them on/off)
- Restart and reset gateway


## 1. Usage
Download the [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary) v1.0.0.x+. You will need the following values:
- **gatewayName** is your nickname to your gateway, currently this doesn't have an effect. It is here if you have access to multiple gateways so you can easily differentiate them.
- **gatewayIp** is the IP-address to your gateway.
- **appName** your name for your application. Be creative but wise with characters.
- **appSecret** Instead of reusing key written on the back of your IKEA Tradfri Gateway you have to acquire new secret key specific for your application and then you should use appName and appSecret to connect. TradfriUI has an example on this, but it still does not implement encryption for the appSecret.


## 2. Example
From Gateway version 1.8.25 you can't use original PSK to connect to gateway anymore. You can only use it to create an application secret for your application which you can later reuse with it.

```csharp
    // recommended
    // This line should only be called ONCE!!! per applicationName -> you define applicationName as you want
    // Gateway generates one appSecret key per applicationName
    TradfriAuth appSecret = controller.GenerateAppSecret("GatewaySecret", "ApplicationName");

    // You should now save programatically appSecret.PSK value (appsettings) and reuse it
    // when connecting to your gateway every other time
    controller.ConnectAppKey(appSecret.PSK, "ApplicationName");

    GatewayController gatewayController = controller.GatewayController;
    var devices = await gatewayController.GetDeviceObjects();

    DeviceController deviceController = controller.DeviceController;
    await deviceController.SetLight(devices[0], true);
    await deviceController.SetColor(devices[0], TradfriColors.SaturatedRed);

    // same works for `controller.GroupController`
```

## 3. Acknowledgements
This is an implementation based on analysis [I](https://github.com/tomidix/) found [here](https://github.com/ggravlingen/pytradfri) by [ggravlingen](https://github.com/ggravlingen/) and [here](https://bitsex.net/software/2017/coap-endpoints-on-ikea-tradfri/) by [vidarlo](https://bitsex.net/).


## 4. Authors
- [tomidix](https://github.com/tomidix) - Initial work
- [coriumalpha](https://github.com/coriumalpha) - Observe method implementation, refactored by tomidix
- [mjwsteenbergen](https://github.com/mjwsteenbergen) - Converted project to .NetStandard
- [johanjonsson1](https://github.com/johanjonsson1) - basic control outlet support


## 5. Old library
Old library is still available as nuget (latest version: 0.3.0.22) and won't be updated anymore.
You can still read it's [ReadMe](https://github.com/tomidix/CSharpTradFriLibrary/blob/master/Readme.legacy.md) if you are using it but we recommend to migrate to newer library as soon as you can.


## 6. Changelog
You can check the changelog [here](https://github.com/tomidix/CSharpTradFriLibrary/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

Feature/#25 color wrapper (#39)
* RGB color wrapper implemented, testing needed

* Feature/#25 color wrapper fixes and additions (#38)

* Changed X and Y incorrect string datatype to int

* Implicit dimming for SetColor(device, r, g, b)

* Updated docu for SetColor(id, x, y, intensity)

* Separated Intensity calculation from RGB>XY conversion function

* - changelog, readme and version updated
- timeout lowerd for GenerateAppSecret, handling example added (TradfriUI, not the library itself)

Co-authored-by: Tomidix <tomidix@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Dominik Jančík <magnet.cz@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

﻿## C# Tradfri Library 
This is a .NET Standard (2.0) library to communicate with the [IKEA Trådfri](http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/00337813/) (Tradfri) ZigBee-based Gateway. Using this library you can, by communicating with the gateway, control IKEA lights (including the RGB ones). 
![Build Status](https://mmustapic.visualstudio.com/_apis/public/build/definitions/596f4816-2b07-4869-bcd5-50b9df973ce6/1/badge) [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/tomidix/CSharpTradFriLibrary.svg)]() [![NuGet downloads](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary) [![NuGet downloads](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary) 

This library is still in development. Current version: 1.2.3.x (x-build number, references only minor changes and fixes)

Latest Gateway version tested and working - 1.10.29.

- Get information on the gateway
- Observe lights, groups and other resources
- Get notified when lights, groups and other resources change
- List all devices connected to gateway
- List all lights and get attributes of lights (name, state, color temp, dimmer level etc)
- Change attribute values of lights (currently only turn them on/off)
- Restart and reset gateway


## 1. Usage
Download the [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tomidix.CSharpTradFriLibrary) v1.0.0.x+. You will need the following values:
- **gatewayName** is your nickname to your gateway, currently this doesn't have an effect. It is here if you have access to multiple gateways so you can easily differentiate them.
- **gatewayIp** is the IP-address to your gateway.
- **appName** your name for your application. Be creative but wise with characters.
- **appSecret** Instead of reusing key written on the back of your IKEA Tradfri Gateway you have to acquire new secret key specific for your application and then you should use appName and appSecret to connect. TradfriUI has an example on this, but it still does not implement encryption for the appSecret.


## 2. Example
From Gateway version 1.8.25 you can't use original PSK to connect to gateway anymore. You can only use it to create an application secret for your application which you can later reuse with it.

```csharp
    // recommended
    // This line should only be called ONCE!!! per applicationName -> you define applicationName as you want
    // Gateway generates one appSecret key per applicationName
    TradfriAuth appSecret = controller.GenerateAppSecret("GatewaySecret", "ApplicationName");

    // You should now save programatically appSecret.PSK value (appsettings) and reuse it
    // when connecting to your gateway every other time
    controller.ConnectAppKey(appSecret.PSK, "ApplicationName");

    GatewayController gatewayController = controller.GatewayController;
    var devices = await gatewayController.GetDeviceObjects();

    DeviceController deviceController = controller.DeviceController;
    await deviceController.SetLight(devices[0], true);
    await deviceController.SetColor(devices[0], TradfriColors.SaturatedRed);

    // same works for `controller.GroupController`
```

## 3. Acknowledgements
This is an implementation based on analysis [I](https://github.com/tomidix/) found [here](https://github.com/ggravlingen/pytradfri) by [ggravlingen](https://github.com/ggravlingen/) and [here](https://bitsex.net/software/2017/coap-endpoints-on-ikea-tradfri/) by [vidarlo](https://bitsex.net/).


## 4. Authors
- [tomidix](https://github.com/tomidix) - Initial work, later features and maintenance
- [coriumalpha](https://github.com/coriumalpha) - Observe method implementation, refactored by tomidix
- [mjwsteenbergen](https://github.com/mjwsteenbergen) - Converted project to .NetStandard
- [johanjonsson1](https://github.com/johanjonsson1) - Basic control outlet support
- [dominikjancik](https://github.com/dominikjancik) - Testing and fixes of Wrapper for setting CIE Yxy colors


## 5. Old library
Old library is still available as nuget (latest version: 0.3.0.22) and won't be updated anymore.
You can still read it's [ReadMe](https://github.com/tomidix/CSharpTradFriLibrary/blob/master/Readme.legacy.md) if you are using it but we recommend to migrate to newer library as soon as you can.


## 6. Changelog
You can check the changelog [here](https://github.com/tomidix/CSharpTradFriLibrary/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).
